Q1.What will be output if you will compile and execute the following c code?
void main(){

if(printf("cquestionbank"))
printf("I know c");
else
printf("I know c++");
}


A. I know c

B. I know c++

C. cquestionbankI know c

D. cquestionbankI know c++

ans=C


Q2. What will be the output of the following statements ?

   int x[4] = {1,2,3};
   printf("%d %d %D",x[3],x[2],x[1]);


A. 03%D

B. 000

C. 032

D. 321

ans=C


Q3. What will be the output of the following statement ?

   printf( 3 + "goodbye");


A. goodbye

B. odbye

C. bye

D. dbye

ans=D


Q4. Consider an implementation of unsorted singly linked list. Suppose it has its representation with a head pointer only. Given the representation, which of the following operation can be implemented in O(1) time?

i) Insertion at the front of the linked list
ii) Insertion at the end of the linked list
iii) Deletion of the front node of the linked list
iv) Deletion of the last node of the linked list

a) I and II
b) I and III
c) I, II and III
d) I, II and IV

ans = b


Q5. Consider the following definition in c programming language.

struct node
{
    int data;
    struct node * next;
}
typedef struct node NODE;
NODE *ptr;
Which of the following c code is used to create new node?
a) ptr = (NODE*)malloc(sizeof(NODE));
b) ptr = (NODE*)malloc(NODE);
c) ptr = (NODE*)malloc(sizeof(NODE*));
d) ptr = (NODE)malloc(sizeof(NODE));

ans = a


Q6. If the elements “A”, “B”, “C” and “D” are placed in a queue and are deleted one at a time, in what order will they be removed?
a) ABCD
b) DCBA
c) DCAB
d) ABDC

ans = a

Q7. A normal queue, if implemented using an array of size MAX_SIZE, gets full when?
a) Rear = MAX_SIZE – 1
b) Front = (rear + 1)mod MAX_SIZE
c) Front = rear + 1
d) Rear = front

ans = a

Q8. If the elements “A”, “B”, “C” and “D” are placed in a stack and are deleted one at a time, what is the order of removal?
a) ABCD
b) DCBA
c) DCAB
d) ABDC

ans = b

Q9. Consider the following operation performed on a stack of size 5.
Push(1);
Pop();
Push(2);
Push(3);
Pop();
Push(4);
Pop();
Pop();
Push(5);

After the completion of all operation, the number of elements present in stack is?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4

ans = a

Q10. In a Double Ended Queue,After performing these set of operations, what does the final list look contain?

InsertFront(10);
InsertFront(20);
InsertRear(30);
DeleteFront();
InsertRear(40);
InsertRear(10);
DeleteRear();
InsertRear(15);
display();
a) 10 30 10 15
b) 20 30 40 15
c) 20 30 40 10
d) 10 30 40 15

ans = d

Q.11 What are the types of Data Structures?
Ans. The following are the types of data structures:

i. Lists: A collection of related things linked to the previous or/and following data items.

ii. Arrays: A collection of values that are all the same.

iii. Records: A collection of fields, each of which contains data from a single data type.

iv. Trees: A data structure that organizes data in a hierarchical framework. This form of data structure follows
the ordered order of data item insertion, deletion, and modification.

v. Tables: The data is saved in the form of rows and columns. These are comparable to records in that the outcome
or alteration of data is mirrored across the whole table.

Q.12 What is a Linear Data Structure?
Ans. A data structure is linear if all its elements or data items are arranged in a sequence or a linear order.

Q.13 What is the difference between file structure and storage structure?
Ans. The difference lies in the memory area accessed. Storage structure refers to the data structure in the memory of the computer system,
whereas file structure represents the storage structure in the auxiliary memory.

Q.14  What is a linked list Data Structure?
Ans. It’s a linear Data Structure or a sequence of data objects where elements are not stored in adjacent memory locations.
The elements are linked using pointers to form a chain.

Q.15 Are linked lists considered linear or non-linear Data Structures?
Ans. Linked lists are considered both linear and non-linear data structures depending upon the application they are used for.

Q.16  What are the operations that can be performed on a stack?
Ans. PUSH, POP, PEEK

Q.17 What is a Dequeue?
It is a double-ended queue, or a data structure, where the elements can be inserted or deleted at both ends (FRONT and REAR).

Q.18 What operations can be performed on queues?
Ans. i) enqueue() adds an element to the end of the queue
ii) dequeue() removes an element from the front of the queue
iii) init() is used for initializing the queue
iv) isEmpty tests for whether or not the queue is empty

Q.19 Which sorting algorithm is considered the fastest?
Ans. the QuickSort algorithm is generally considered the fastest because it has the best performance for most inputs.

Q.20 What is the merge sort? How does it work?
Merge sort is a divide-and-conquer algorithm for sorting the data. It works by merging and sorting adjacent data to create bigger sorted lists,
which are then merged recursively to form even bigger sorted lists until you have one single sorted list.

Q.21 What are the time and space complexity of Selection sort?
Ans. Time complexity: best case O(n2); worst O(n2)
     Space complexity: worst O(1)

Q.22 Differentiate NULL and VOID
Ans. Null is a value, whereas Void is a data type identifier 
Null indicates an empty value for a variable, whereas void indicates pointers that have no initial size 
Null means it never existed; Void means it existed but is not in effect 

Q.23 List out some computer processors
Ans. Computer processors are: 1) Intel Core i9, 2) Intel Core i5, 3) Intel Core i7, 4) AMD Ryzen 7, and 5) AMD Ryzen 5, 6)Intel i3

Q.24  List out some popular operating system
Ans. Some popular operating systems are Microsoft Windows, MacOS, and Linux.

Q.25 List out different OOPS principles?
Ans. The basic OOPS principle are: 1) encapsulation, 2) abstraction, 3) inheritance and 4) polymorphism.

Q.26 What are the MS Office Applications?
Ans. Microsoft Teams.
     Word.
     Excel.
     PowerPoint.
     Outlook.
     OneNote.
     OneDrive.
